So now let's talk pricing models in AWS.
AWS has four different pricing models.
There is pay as you go,
where you pay for what you use.
You remain agile,
because you can start and stop
and delete resources whenever you want,
responsive,
and you can scale to meet demands as demand happens.
There's also a model where you save when you reserve.
So this is to minimize risk
and to get a predictable budget
and to comply with long-term requirements.
For example, we can do instance reservations
for EC2, DynamoDB, ElastiCache, RDS and Redshift.
Also, you get to pay less by using more.
You get volume-based discounts,
for example, on Amazon S3.
And as AWS grows their infrastructure,
they will have some cost savings,
and they will pass them onto you.
So AWS is very famous for doing cost reductions
every month or every year,
which is really good,
because as their infrastructure grow,
and more people use AWS,
they have volume and scale,
and therefore, they will pass on that economy of scale
onto you to get discounts.
On top of it, in AWS,
some services are going to be free,
and other will be part of the free tier.
So I AM is free,
VPC is free,
and consolidated billing is free as well.
If you use the Elastic Beanstalk, CloudFormation and ASG,
they are free services.
But whatever these services creates,
obviously, you need to pay.
So Elastic Beanstalk,
if you create an application load balancer
and EC2 instance,
it has to be paid by you.
And your Auto Scaling group obviously,
when it adds more EC2 instances,
you're going to pay for those.
And obviously, what is created through CloudFormation,
you will have to pay as well.
Those are free tier that you can find at this address.
And for example, as part of the free tier,
you get a t2.micro instance for a year,
or you get S3, EBS, ELB and data transfer for free
at up to a certain amounts.
Okay. So we have the free tier here,
and we can see that there are kinds of free tiers.
There is featured.
There is 12 months free
which is when you start a new account.
There is always free
which is going to be free even after 12 months.
And trials, for example, the 30-day trials
for GuardDuty, for SageMaker, Inspector and so on.
So here, I think it's really helpful for you
to have a look at it and to see what is free.
I think the most important ones are going to be Amazon EC2,
Amazon S3, Amazon RDS and so on.
So now let's do a deep dive into the pricing
for different services.
For example, for EC2,
with the On-Demand,
you are only charged for what you use,
which is the number of instances
as well as the instance configuration,
what's the capacity number of CPU and RAM,
the region you in,
the operating system and the software you install
on your EC2 instance,
the instance type and instance size.
And if you're using a load balancer, for example,
how long the load balancer will run
and the amount of data processed by your load balancer.
Also, you can enable detailed monitoring
on your EC2 instance to get CloudWatch metrics every minute
instead of every five minutes,
and you will have to pay for that as well.
So now let's talk about the different models
for pricing on EC2.
The first one is with On-Demand instances.
And you're going to have a minimum billing time
of 60 seconds.
And then you're going to pay per second
for Linux and Windows
or per hour for your other EC2 instances.
But if you know you're going to use your instances
for a long time,
then you should use Reserved instances,
and it's going to give you up to 75% discount
compared to the On-Demand price for the hourly rate.
But you need to commit for a long period of time,
so either one or three-year commitment.
And you get more discounts if you pay early.
So you can pay everything upfront,
and you get more discounts.
Or partial upfront,
so just a part of the total amounts.
Or no upfront.
But this is going to give you a bit less discounts.
You also have Spot instances,
and you get up to 90% discount
compared to your On-Demand hourly rate.
And what this means is that
you're going to bid for unused capacity
in the EC2 instances.
And so because you use these unused capacity,
you can get it at a very, very aggressive discount.
But with Spot instances,
you run the risk of losing them
in case someone is willing to pay a bit more
for your Spot instances.
You can also have Dedicated Host
which can be On-Demand and can be Reserved as well.
And this is a tendency way of running EC2.
This means that you are going to run a loan on these hosts,
because they're dedicated to you.
And finally, there's another component called Savings Plan
which is an alternative to all these things above.
And I'm going to describe Savings Plans to you
in a future lecture.
So don't worry about it too much.
Next, we have Lambda and ECS,
again under compute category.
So Lambda, you pay per API call,
and you pay per duration of your Lambda functions
times the number of the amount of RAM
that you have assigned for your Lambda function.
For ECS, you get an EC2 launch type model.
That means that you don't get any fees for using ECS,
but any time you start an EC2 instance
underlying your ECS cluster,
then you will have to pay for that EC2 instance.
For Fargate, it sort of different,
because we don't manage EC2 instances,
and therefore, we're going to pay for each container
for the amount of CPU and memory
that gets assigned for your container.
Now let's talk about the pricing
of the storage on Amazon S3.
So as we saw, there are different storage classes
that you need to know for the exam.
We have S3 Standard, S3 Infrequent Access, S3 One-Zone IA,
S3 Intelligent Tiering, Glacier and Glacier Deep Archive.
As well on S3, you're going to pay
for the number and the size of the objects.
And the price is going to be tiered,
so the more volume you have,
the more objects and the more,
the bigger the objects are,
the more discounts you're going to get.
Then if you do request in and out of Amazon S3,
you're going to pay for these requests.
You're also going to pay for any data transfer
out of the S3 region.
So sending data into S3 is free,
but retrieving data from S3,
you will have to pay something.
If you use S3 Transfer Acceleration,
it is also a cost that has to be incurred for it.
And any time you do a Lifecycle transition
between the storage classes defined above,
then you're going to have to pay for it.
A similar service is going to be EFS.
Because EFS, you're going pay per use.
It will also have an infrequent access tier
and lifecycle rules.
A different way to do storage pricing is with EBS.
So with EBS,
we're going to have pricing based on the volume type
that we've provisioned,
so the performance of that volume.
Then the size of the volume in gigabytes
that you provision in advance.
Okay, you don't pay per use with EBS.
You say, yes, I want one hundred gigabyte EBS volume,
and you're going to pay for it
regardless whether your use it or not.
Then the IOPS, so the performance of your volumes.
So if it's a General Purpose SSD, it's included.
But if it's Provisioned IOPS,
you're going to pay for the IOPS provision.
And for Magnetic, the number of requests.
Then you're going to pay for your EBS snapshots.
So the more snapshots you get, the more you pay.
So you're gonna get a cost
per gigabyte of snapshot per month.
And then data transfer.
Any data transfer out of EBS is going to be paid
and is going to be tiered for volume discounts.
But anything you write into EBS inbound is going to be free.
Now let's talk about database pricing,
for example, for RDS.
So it's a per hour billing.
And based on the database you use,
you have different pricing.
So the engine type, the size, the memory class.
Then for an RDS database,
you can either have On-Demand as a purchase type,
or you can reserve an RDS database
which is a very smart thing to do,
for example, for one or three years,
and you can pay upfront for that RDS database.
Then if you do RDS backups,
you're gonna have to pay for those.
But usually, there is no charge for backup storage
up to 100% of your total database storage for a region.
And in the experience of AWS,
that means that all in all,
the backup storage should be free
if your database is not all the way up to full.
Then for RDS,
you're going to pay obviously for the underlying storage
in gigabytes per month
based on the EBS volume that you provision
for your RDS database.
You're going to pay for the number of input
and output requests per month.
The deployment type.
Is it a Single AZ or is it Multi AZ,
in which case you have to pay for two RDS databases.
And as well as the data transfer.
So any data transfer out of your database
is going to be paid and tiered based on volume.
And any transfer into your database is free.
Now let's talk about CloudFront.
So CloudFront is a CDN,
and it is global,
so therefore, the pricing is going to be different
based on where the content is served from.
So you have different pricing based on usually continents.
So for example, America, Europe, South America,
Japan, Australia, India and so on.
And this is in the table
that you can see in this slide down.
And then the more you're going to use CloudFront
in a specific edge location,
the more you're going to get discounts,
and you're going to get to an aggregated bill
for all the edge locations.
You're going to pay for any data transfer
out of CloudFront,
but not for in.
In is always free.
Finally, you're going to get a paid bill
based on the number of requests
that are made into CloudFront.
They are counted.
Okay. So in AWS finally,
you need to understand the networking costs
which are, to be honest, very, very complicated.
But I try to simplify it in this slide.
So you have a region,
and we have two AZ.
And say we have an EC2 instance in one AZ.
Any traffic going inbound of your EC2 instance
is going to be free.
And then say you have another EC2 instance
in the same AZ.
If these two EC2 instance talk together,
then the traffic is free using the private IP.
Now say you have another easy three instance in another AZ.
Then if you use the public IP of the EC2 instances
to talk to one another,
then the traffic will have to go through the internet,
and you're going to pay 2 cents per gigabytes.
But if you're using the private IP instead
to make these EC2 instance talk to one another,
then it's going to be 1 cents per gigabyte.
So overall, I would recommend you always use the private IP
if you can to have communication between your EC2 instances.
And if you happen to have EC2 instance in another region,
then you're going to get a fee of 2 cents per gigabyte
as an inter-region cost.
Okay.
So summary is that you should use a private IP
instead of a public IP
for good savings and better network performance.
And then if possible,
if you want to have the maximum amount of cost saving,
use one Availability Zone,
but you sacrifice obviously the high availability.
So there's a trade-off here
between cost and high availability.
So that's it for an overview of pricing on AWS.
You won't be testing on the actual details of each service,
but it's good for you to understand
the reasoning behind cost in AWS,
because this is what the exam will test you on
to understand how at a high level it cost
to use some AWS services.
So hope you like this.
And I will see you in the next lecture.